it's that time again you need another
internship to bolster your college
applications
last year you worked at a local art
museum helping organize their collection
and giving tours to visitors this year
it's going to be much more difficult you
want to work on an organic farm across
the country in California that's your
real passion unfortunately your friends
list of contacts doesn't include organic
farmers the same for your parents group
of friends they want to help you but
they simply don't know of any
internships in agriculture the school
counselor she just laughed to make your
farming dreams come true you're going to
have to press beyond your strong ties
people like your family and closest
friends and try tapping into your weaker
ties we ties or a broader network you're
friends of friends of friends they're
important because they have access to
resources that your strong ties don't
have this works in both directions by
the way you have access to resources
that they don't have let's say most
people speak to three close friends on a
regular basis each time you reach beyond
the next array of contacts you have
access to three more people like a tree
that branches out three times per node
so you can look beyond your closest
circles during the last family
get-together didn't you hear that your
aunts friend studied lighting with a
nature photographer on the west coast in
fact you recall this because you saw a
recent image by said photographer on the
front cover of the New York Times
so you email him and learn that the
photographer's wife's cousin publishes a
sustainability magazine which employs a
staff writer who pitches on a local
baseball team with an umpire who wait
for it is an organic farmer bingo get
ready to trade in those cufflinks for
some apple seeds all because you reached
out to your weak ties that's your key
remember every conversation is an
opportunity
moreover don't wait for opportunity make
it happen
take Kathryn Minshew for example she
went from not knowing anyone at Yahoo to
three warm introductions to major
executives in 30 days here are her
suggestions for
v-steps to networking one always say yes
to invitations even if it's not clear
what you'll get out of the meeting many
of katherines most productive
relationships resulted from a meeting or
call without a clear agenda - when you
want something broadcast it to everyone
you meet
that doesn't mean you beg everyone for
help as soon as you meet them but talk
about what you're trying to do be
excited ask for feedback and try to get
them excited 2/3 show up and often be at
the forefront of other's minds when
opportunities arise you don't want to be
that person who only shows up when he
needs something be the one that people
think of and want to reach out to when a
new opportunity presents itself so while
networking may not be the most intuitive
or even for some of you introverts the
most comfortable skill it's a helpful
tool to have as you think about getting
a job going to school or most
importantly learning from others good
luck
you